Another great example of Jehovah guiding his servants is the construction of the walk-ill-bethel complex here in the United States.
Before that location was acquired and built, the organization owned another property outside of New York City called Kingdom Farm.
That's actually where the Gilead School was held at the time.
But the location was not ideal, so Brother George Couch was assigned to find a new property that later became walk-ill-bethel.
Brother Couch served at World Headquarters until his death in 2007.
Please enjoy listening to his account of what happened told in a way that only our dear Brother Couch could.
Brother Nora said around in this early 60s sometime about looking at getting another farm, closer New York so we didn't have to travel so far.
So one cold Saturday morning, I called Brother Lars and I said Brother Lars and you won't take a trip with me.
Yeah, I'll go with you. I didn't tell him where it was going. So we come up here to the global place.
And I come up with the intention of asking Brother Global where he advised us to look for buying a farm.
And so we got here about 10 o'clock and cold. They have finished the barn work and we come in the house and had a cup of coffee and had a bite breakfast with them.
And of course they kept looking at us wondering what in the world are you doing up here.
So finally we said we're thinking of getting a farm closer to New York than Kingdom Farm and thought maybe it had some ideas.
And it just stunned them. They looked at one another and then they looked at us and I don't know what in the world did we say wrong.
And she said you know yesterday we put this farm up for sale and we were the buyers of it then.
But we had no workers and so one Tuesday morning, Brother Norm, Brother Lars and I were coming up here to the farm.
And we brought up the subject of where are we going to get help. Brother Norm made this suggestion. Why don't you bring in some circuit and district overseers and call them in for a short time and have them help.
And so we had the file with this of the circuit district overseer. So on our way up we picked out 50 circuit and district overseers.
We wrote them a letter and told them that it was a special assignment. It would only last about six months.
We didn't have a typewriter. We didn't have a computer. We didn't have a blueprints when we started the job.
Brother Dexter Bushing, he bought himself a calculator to do the stress and then strain the figure and work on it and that's how we built the building.
The schedule was from day light to dark. We set up a temporary kitchen in the farmhouse and fed cafeteria style.
Which worked out quite well. The brothers ate in the porch and out in the yard and wherever they could sit down.
We got the basement in on the farm building and the brothers put beds in there. So it was the makeshift. We had everything but tents.
And I'd say most of our picking shovel brothers, they slept in the corn cribs, they slept in the hay mow, they slept anywhere they could put a bunk up.
All the brothers that broke the Bethel with 25 years or more senior already were invited to come up.
And they had a nice steak meal for us. Brother Norgate the dedication talk and then he called them brother friends to say a few words.
And brother friends get up and he started back in the garden to feed and with Adam and Eve that what he was saying that man started off as a farmer.
And he sort of developed that to a certain extent. After that, I came up here every week no doubt for the next 10 to 15 years.
I saw the brothers turn this piece of ground from a junk yard to a paradise is today.
That started the society in their construction work, our own construction work. Then we built several other buildings after that. We saw we could do it.
And the interesting thing is it wasn't long after that we started to send the brothers into foreign lands to help the brothers build the branch homes, missionary homes, kingdom halls.
Just to be honest with it, we had to get out of New York. Our buildings weren't big enough to take the modern presses.
There were high enough, the weight limit to our buildings wouldn't hold them. You couldn't buy land in New York City to put up a building like you had there.
It was almost an impossibility. So there was only one thing to do. Our presses were old and we had to replace them.
No place in New York to put them. We looked for land, but we couldn't find any place. The Lord just drove us up here.
When you look back over things, sometimes you think, my someone had some wise thinking and a good foresight. No, the Lord's spirit didn't.
The Lord's running the organization. It's a pediatric organization. Sometimes it's surprising where the idea comes from, the what you're going to do.
Don't worry about what it's going to be like after Armageddon. It'll be just the way we wanted because the Lord's going to do it. The Lord didn't see fit the put into the Bible.
We don't need to know now. We got our hands full now just breaching.
But the Lord has a mind for the future. Who knows?